Next up, let's take a look at some
possible sort of magazine style layout.
So I use the word magazine loosely here.
Typically on a website, maybe a content
management system based website or
a blog-based website where you have
a whole bunch of units of content,
maybe there's an image, a little bit
of title, a little bit of starter text.
That type of thing, you may want to
play around with the look of that page.
So you have a lot of different units
that are coming in from a database or
from an API,
wherever it happens to be coming from.
And you wanna lay out a bunch of
different boxes here on the web page.
In flexbox you would just read those
in and they would wrap on two lines, so
it actually kinda look just like this.
Here's all of the kittens of place kitten,
and they're all just
lined up here in a row.
And that looks great.
But maybe you want to emphasize some
of these, maybe there are particularly
important articles that happened
here inside of your system.
Maybe you want to make
some of these bigger,
some of them different types of layouts.
It may even be something
you wanna program into,
say an admin side on
a content management system.
Where your user could check off that
something is a featured article or
it's a main article and
it would consequently display
differently inside of your web page.
So those are the kinds of problems
that I'm thinking of here next.
I'm once again sticking with figures here.
But you could very easily do
these as little units of content.
Maybe they're inside of div tags or
article tags and
they have the same kind of information.
Images and headings and maybe a little
bit of text, a link, that kind of thing.
So what I've got here to start
with is just all of these figures,
they're coded up the same way you've seen
me code up figures throughout this course.
And then down here in RCSS we
have our images are set to 100%.
Remember again, that's our hack for
responsive images so
that they flex with the size of
the web page, just like that.
And I've also eliminated the figure
caption, I set a margin top of -4px.
You may have noticed in the default
styling inside of the figure that there is
a small gap between the image and
the figure caption.
This is eliminating most of it,
it looks like maybe there's
still a little bit there.
Maybe it needs negative 5px.
And then inside of my media query,
I have laid these out just
in a simple grid system.
So I said display: grid.
I created four evenly sized columns,
however many rows we needed,
and I set my gap to be 1%.
So now the question is,
how do I set up exceptions to these rules?
So not all of these are equally important.
Which is what this type
of display indicates.
How would I indicate that something is
more important here on the grid system, or
less important here on the grid system.
So let's go through how we might
set up something like that.
Let's say that I want to
set up a featured item.
And you can define featured however
you want but let's just say in this
particular situation that I want the
featured item to be particularly large,
maybe I want it to go across a couple
of rows and a couple of columns.
So that one is particularly big and
then everything else can
kind of wrap around it.
So I could just simply set
this up to say the class
of featured would have
a grid row of say span 2 and
a grid column of span 2, just like that.
From wherever it is, make it span
across two columns and two rows.
So then when I go and drop that in,
I could just pick any of
these particular articles and
say that it's a featured item.
So this one's gonna be featured and
that one's gonna be featured.
So just by picking two things and
putting them here inside of the layout,
you'll see here that grid will very
nicely take that particular item.
It blows it up over two rows and
two columns, and
it will just wrap the other kittens
around it just like that, okay?
So you could continue to tweak these
a little bit more if you wanted,
to make sure that your larger image, maybe
you wanna pull that down a little bit.
Or you maybe there's more text that goes
here with a featured image that shows,
that type of thing would
be one possibility.
But as you can see here,
it's very easy just to apply this type
of thing wherever you want it to occur.
If you wanted to be very specific about
where that specific featured item
occurred, so it's kinda weird to have
it here in the middle of the page.
Maybe you really want it
towards the top of the page.
Then as always,
you could be more specific about your
grid rows and your grid columns.
So let's just say, for example,
our grid row is gonna be 1/ span 2.
In our grid column is gonna be 1/ span 2.
So now here's my featured
image up here at the top and
all of the others wrap around.
But be very careful when you use this
type of notation because we have
said that the class of featured
always starts at a grid row of 1,
always starts at a grid column of 1.
I had originally applied this
to two different cats, hadn't I?
So if we double check here, we've got 1,
2, 3, and then 5, so 4 is missing.
4 has the class of
featured on it right here.
And then we go through 6,
7, 8, and then 10.
So cat number 9 has
the class of featured on it.
But if you'll notice, we see cat number 9,
but we do not see cat number 4.
Why is that?
>> Override.
>> Not quite an override.
What's going on here is
we've started at row 1,
line number 1 and
the column line number 1.
So these two cats are on
top of each other.
Cat number 4 is here, but
it's underneath cat number 9.
>> Yeah, underneath, overlap.
>> Yeah, yep, underneath overlap, exactly.
Exactly, you can use the z-index
property to change the order of these.
So if you wanted to,
let's say, cat number 4,
we'll say featured and we'll say top.
We could set up a class of top just for
fun.
And then we could say
a z-index of whatever,
will be extreme and say 1,000.
And now cat number 4 is on top,
the cat number 8 is underneath, okay?
So remember that won't happen if you're
not specifying where these are supposed
to start.
If we Instead specify these
as just a generic span 2,
they show up wherever they are,
and you'll see both of them.
So you'll need to give that a little bit
of thought as you work through an example
like this.
That is one type of syntax that you
can use for a problem like this.
So you can use that span notation with the
lines that we've talked about quite a bit
to this point in the course.
There is a another kind of syntax,
this is called the grid template areas.
So let's go through exactly how
we would go about doing that.
And a couple of other pointers
along the way here as well.
So first of all, we've specified how
many columns and how many rows we have.
Now I can actually name certain
combinations of columns and
rows into a very specific area.
And the way that I would
go about doing that is
using the grid-template-areas syntax.
And the way that that one works,
it's a little bit weird in CSS,
a very odd looking syntax,
but this is how it goes.
We are going to say grid-template-areas,
that's our property colon,
just like you normally do in CSS.
And then inside of the quotes,
this is going to be my first row.
Here, I'm going to say,
featured featured featured featured.
That looks very, very repetitive,
but basically I'm saying that in my
first row all four of those cells
are assigned a area name of featured.
And then if I wanted to add to
this a second row of information,
I could say something like
this ......main main.
So here I'm saying we're gonna have,
on the next row,
we're gonna have two items here
they're gonna be called main.
And then we'll put in the semi colon.
You could continue on like this for
as long as you wanted.
You could make things span over the rows
in addition to spanning over the columns,
whatever you want it to do.
But basically you're taking each cell
going across in that row and you're giving
it a name and if there are two cells that
have the same name next to each other,
they fuse into a single area.
If you have two cells in different rows,
they have the same name,
they fuse into different areas.
That's how that all works.
So once you have these names established,
then you can go through and
change around your styling here.
So rather than saying featured
with using the span notation.
Here what we're going to do instead is
we're gonna say grid-area: featured.
So whatever has the class of featured
is now assigned to the featured area.
So here's that cat that is going to occupy
that full first row, and in fact we have
two cats occupying that because we have
two cats with the class of featured.
And this time cat number 4 also
has the class of top on it with
the z-index of 1,000.
So that one winds up on top and
the other cat is underneath.
Likewise, we could say,
set up a class of main,
And we could say it has
a grid area of main.
And that will be our other location for
some kind of cat here,
and we can just go ahead and
assign that here in our HTML.
So, cat number,
whatever this was, cat number 8,
let's just say we wanted to
put that in the main location.
So we'll give it a class of main.
And now you'll see,
There's the cat with the class of main.
And we have the other cats filling in
all the way around it just like that.
Kind of a nice sort of setup.
And so once again,
if you're on a content management system,
this might be a better approach to getting
those images, or units of information,
whatever they happen to be, off the server
and then arranging them here on the page.
You could set some UI that will allow your
content creators to assign specific areas,
like feature domain, or
you can call them whatever you want.
And that would allow them to set up
a web page configuration like this,
that type of thing.
Doesn't have to be in the top edges,
the way that I've drawn it here, but
that's generally a good way of doing that.
You're also not prevented from
combining these techniques.
So just because we started
here with grid area,
does not mean that we can't
use the span syntax anymore.
So we could start setting up
some span syntax as well.
So if I had another one here,
let's call it middle.
I could say a grid row of span 2.
Oops, span space 2 and a grid column of
span space 2, and
we can then take that and
assign it to any of these class as well.
So let's say cat number 1,
we actually want it to go to the middle.
Actually not cat 1.
Let's do cat here in the middle.
Class, Class=middle.
There we go.
And then if you take a quick peek,
there it is.
So here is the main cat here, and
then here is the middle cat over here.
It looks like I just happened to pick
such a space that it wound up showing up
over here.
If I took that class of middle and
moved elsewhere,
Now it's over here on
the left-hand side instead.
Okay, just sort of depends.
Yeah, Mark
>> With grid-template-areas,
what's the difference between
the dot dot dot and just dot again?
>> I don't think there is a difference.
You can have just plain one dot or
you can have the three dots and
I think it will do the same thing.
It's kind of an offset type of situation.
That's what that is doing.
>> There's people saying it so cool magic.
>> So cool magic.
I know, no math.
Isn't it great?
Super fun stuff.
So this is just a concept type of page
here to give you, hopefully, again,
generate ideas about how grid could
be used in your page layouts.
You can think of these
figures as cards potentially.
That's actually our next
topic to talk about.
This is one type of treatment
that you could use for
laying out different kinds
of cards on the web page.
We've kept this layout really,
really simple so far.
Notice that I have a media query,
it's at a minimum width of 600px.
So I've just kept this as
simple as simple can be, but
you can actually take this
to a whole 'nother level.
And that's what we're gonna look at and
then next section here,
as we start to look at card-based layouts.